README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/pfalcon/micropython.png?branch=pfalcon)](https://travis-ci.org/pfalcon/micropython) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/pfalcon/micropython/badge.png?branch=pfalcon)](https://coveralls.io/github/pfalcon/micropython?branch=pfalcon)

Fork FAQ [below](#fork-faq).


The Pycopy/MicroPython project
==============================
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pfalcon/micropython/master/logo/upython-with-micro.jpg" alt="MicroPython Logo"/>
</p>

This is the MicroPython project, which aims to put an implementation
of Python 3.x on microcontrollers and small embedded systems.
You can find the official website at [micropython.org](http://www.micropython.org).

WARNING: this project is in beta stage and is subject to changes of the
code-base, including project-wide name changes and API changes.

MicroPython implements the entire Python 3.4 syntax (including exceptions,
`with`, `yield from`, etc., and additionally `async`/`await` keywords from
Python 3.5). The following core datatypes are provided: `str` (including
basic Unicode support), `bytes`, `bytearray`, `tuple`, `list`, `dict`, `set`,
`frozenset`, `array.array`, `collections.namedtuple`, classes and instances.
Builtin modules include `sys`, `time`, and `struct`, etc. Select ports have
support for `_thread` module (multithreading). Note that only a subset of
Python 3 functionality is implemented for the data types and modules.

MicroPython can execute scripts in textual source form or from precompiled
bytecode, in both cases either from an on-device filesystem or "frozen" into
the MicroPython executable.

See the repository http://github.com/micropython/pyboard for the MicroPython
board (PyBoard), the officially supported reference electronic circuit board.

Major components in this repository:
- py/ -- the core Python implementation, including compiler, runtime, and
  core library.
- mpy-cross/ -- the MicroPython cross-compiler which is used to turn scripts
  into precompiled bytecode.
- ports/unix/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Unix.
- ports/stm32/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the PyBoard and similar
  STM32 boards (using ST's Cube HAL drivers).
- ports/minimal/ -- a minimal MicroPython port. Start with this if you want
  to port MicroPython to another microcontroller.
- tests/ -- test framework and test scripts.
- docs/ -- user documentation in Sphinx reStructuredText format. Rendered
  HTML documentation is available at http://pycopy.readthedocs.io/ .

Additional components:
- ports/bare-arm/ -- a bare minimum version of MicroPython for ARM MCUs. Used
  mostly to control code size.
- ports/teensy/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the Teensy 3.1
  (preliminary but functional).
- ports/pic16bit/ -- a version of MicroPython for 16-bit PIC microcontrollers.
- ports/cc3200/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the CC3200 from TI.
- ports/esp8266/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Espressif's ESP8266 SoC.
- ports/esp32/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Espressif's ESP32 SoC.
- ports/nrf/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Nordic's nRF51 and nRF52 MCUs.
- extmod/ -- additional (non-core) modules implemented in C.
- tools/ -- various tools, including the pyboard.py module.
- examples/ -- a few example Python scripts.

The subdirectories above may include READMEs with additional info.

"make" is used to build the components, or "gmake" on BSD-based systems.
You will also need bash, gcc, and Python 3.3+ available as the command `python3`
(if your system only has Python 2.7 then invoke make with the additional option
`PYTHON=python2`).

The Unix version
----------------

The "unix" port requires a standard Unix environment with gcc and GNU make.
x86 and x64 architectures are supported (i.e. x86 32- and 64-bit), as well
as ARM and MIPS. Making full-featured port to another architecture requires
writing some assembly code for the exception handling and garbage collection.
Alternatively, fallback implementation based on setjmp/longjmp can be used.

To build (see section below for required dependencies):

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/unix
    $ make

Then to give it a try:

    $ ./micropython
    >>> list(5 * x + y for x in range(10) for y in [4, 2, 1])

Use `CTRL-D` (i.e. EOF) to exit the shell.
Learn about command-line options (in particular, how to increase heap size
which may be needed for larger applications):

    $ ./micropython --help

Run complete testsuite:

    $ make test

Unix version comes with a builtin package manager called upip, e.g.:

    $ ./micropython -m upip install micropython-pystone
    $ ./micropython -m pystone

Browse available modules on
[PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi?%3Aaction=search&term=micropython).
Standard library modules come from
[micropython-lib](https://github.com/pfalcon/micropython-lib) project.

External dependencies
---------------------

Building MicroPython ports may require some dependencies installed.

For Unix port, `libffi` library and `pkg-config` tool are required. On
Debian/Ubuntu/Mint derivative Linux distros, install `build-essential`
(includes toolchain and make), `libffi-dev`, and `pkg-config` packages.

Other dependencies can be built together with MicroPython. This may
be required to enable extra features or capabilities, and in recent
versions of MicroPython, these may be enabled by default. To build
these additional dependencies, first fetch git submodules for them:

    $ git submodule update --init

Use the same command to get the latest versions of dependencies, as
they are updated from time to time. After that, in the port directory
(e.g. `ports/unix/`), execute:

    $ make deplibs

This will build all available dependencies (regardless whether they
are used or not). If you intend to build MicroPython with additional
options (like cross-compiling), the same set of options should be passed
to `make deplibs`. To actually enable/disable use of dependencies, edit
`ports/unix/mpconfigport.mk` file, which has inline descriptions of the options.
For example, to build SSL module (required for `upip` tool described above,
and so enabled by dfeault), `MICROPY_PY_USSL` should be set to 1.

For some ports, building required dependences is transparent, and happens
automatically. They still need to be fetched with the git submodule command
above.

The STM32 version
-----------------

The "stm32" port requires an ARM compiler, arm-none-eabi-gcc, and associated
bin-utils.  For those using Arch Linux, you need arm-none-eabi-binutils,
arm-none-eabi-gcc and arm-none-eabi-newlib packages.  Otherwise, try here:
https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded

To build:

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/stm32
    $ make

You then need to get your board into DFU mode.  On the pyboard, connect the
3V3 pin to the P1/DFU pin with a wire (on PYBv1.0 they are next to each other
on the bottom left of the board, second row from the bottom).

Then to flash the code via USB DFU to your device:

    $ make deploy

This will use the included `tools/pydfu.py` script.  If flashing the firmware
does not work it may be because you don't have the correct permissions, and
need to use `sudo make deploy`.
See the README.md file in the ports/stm32/ directory for further details.

Contributing
------------

MicroPython is an open-source project and welcomes contributions. To be
productive, please be sure to follow the
[Contributors' Guidelines](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/wiki/ContributorGuidelines)
and the [Code Conventions](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/blob/master/CODECONVENTIONS.md).
Note that MicroPython is licenced under the MIT license, and all contributions
should follow this license.

Fork FAQ
========

Q: Why fork?

A: I was a co-maintainer of MicroPython from 2013-12-29 till 2017-12-27,
and authored 2779 commits during that time, that's more than 30% of commits
during that timeframe
([prooflink](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/graphs/contributors?from=2013-12-29&to=2017-12-27)).
Many MicroPython's modules and subsystems were designed and implemented by
me. After I lost commit access to the main repository, I continue my work
here.

Q: Why wasn't it renamed?

A: My fork is just one of 1900+ forks of MicroPython (prooflink:
[fork stats](https://github.com/micropython/micropython)). I mostly
do everything like they do, and it's just a convenience to continue
calling it MicroPython, so everyone understands what the talk is about,
especially given that during 4 years, I spent a lot of effort to promote
MicroPython and designed/implemented many things in it, without which
MicroPython wouldn't be what it is today. But if you want to look at
the renamed project, you can: https://github.com/pfalcon/pycopy .
Update: It's effectively renamed now. Up to people which name to use.

Q: Relation to the upstream?

A: I rebase on the upstream regularly (and branch `master` in this
repository is still upstream). I revert commits I consider going in
wrong direction or not implemented thoroughly enough. Some things
from this repo got pulled into upstream, some I submit as pull requests
myself (with pull request processing in the upstream being slow and
number of my patches since even co-mainainership time aren't processed
for years, I don't really have incentive to submit too much/too often).

Q: Focus of the fork?

A:
* Code optimizations.
* Continue to develop inplace, buffer and stream operations allowing
  to write highly memory effiicient applications.
* Garbage collection experiments.
* Reflection features (ultimately allowing to develop optimizing compilers,
  etc. in Python).
* More CPython features implemented (configurable).
* "Development/Testing" version with improved program analysis features.
* etc.

Commit message:

README: Update first paragraph with a focus on Pycopy.
Change-Id: Iaa6adedcc961ddc94d66a065aee8e81642885e08

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/pfalcon/micropython.png?branch=pfalcon)](https://travis-ci.org/pfalcon/micropython) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/pfalcon/micropython/badge.png?branch=pfalcon)](https://coveralls.io/github/pfalcon/micropython?branch=pfalcon)

Fork FAQ [below](#fork-faq).


The Pycopy/MicroPython project
==============================
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pfalcon/micropython/master/logo/upython-with-micro.jpg" alt="MicroPython Logo"/>
</p>

This is the Pycopy project, which aims to devel a lightweight implementation
of Python 3.x, scaling down to small embedded systems, and all the way down to
microcontrollers. Pycopy is based on [MicroPython](http://www.micropython.org).
Name "Pycopy" and "MicroPython" is used interchangeably below.

WARNING: this project is in beta stage and is subject to changes of the
code-base, including project-wide name changes and API changes.

MicroPython implements the entire Python 3.4 syntax (including exceptions,
`with`, `yield from`, etc., and additionally `async`/`await` keywords from
Python 3.5). The following core datatypes are provided: `str` (including
basic Unicode support), `bytes`, `bytearray`, `tuple`, `list`, `dict`, `set`,
`frozenset`, `array.array`, `collections.namedtuple`, classes and instances.
Builtin modules include `sys`, `time`, and `struct`, etc. Select ports have
support for `_thread` module (multithreading). Note that only a subset of
Python 3 functionality is implemented for the data types and modules.

MicroPython can execute scripts in textual source form or from precompiled
bytecode, in both cases either from an on-device filesystem or "frozen" into
the MicroPython executable.

See the repository http://github.com/micropython/pyboard for the MicroPython
board (PyBoard), the officially supported reference electronic circuit board.

Major components in this repository:
- py/ -- the core Python implementation, including compiler, runtime, and
  core library.
- mpy-cross/ -- the MicroPython cross-compiler which is used to turn scripts
  into precompiled bytecode.
- ports/unix/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Unix.
- ports/stm32/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the PyBoard and similar
  STM32 boards (using ST's Cube HAL drivers).
- ports/minimal/ -- a minimal MicroPython port. Start with this if you want
  to port MicroPython to another microcontroller.
- tests/ -- test framework and test scripts.
- docs/ -- user documentation in Sphinx reStructuredText format. Rendered
  HTML documentation is available at http://pycopy.readthedocs.io/ .

Additional components:
- ports/bare-arm/ -- a bare minimum version of MicroPython for ARM MCUs. Used
  mostly to control code size.
- ports/teensy/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the Teensy 3.1
  (preliminary but functional).
- ports/pic16bit/ -- a version of MicroPython for 16-bit PIC microcontrollers.
- ports/cc3200/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on the CC3200 from TI.
- ports/esp8266/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Espressif's ESP8266 SoC.
- ports/esp32/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Espressif's ESP32 SoC.
- ports/nrf/ -- a version of MicroPython that runs on Nordic's nRF51 and nRF52 MCUs.
- extmod/ -- additional (non-core) modules implemented in C.
- tools/ -- various tools, including the pyboard.py module.
- examples/ -- a few example Python scripts.

The subdirectories above may include READMEs with additional info.

"make" is used to build the components, or "gmake" on BSD-based systems.
You will also need bash, gcc, and Python 3.3+ available as the command `python3`
(if your system only has Python 2.7 then invoke make with the additional option
`PYTHON=python2`).

The Unix version
----------------

The "unix" port requires a standard Unix environment with gcc and GNU make.
x86 and x64 architectures are supported (i.e. x86 32- and 64-bit), as well
as ARM and MIPS. Making full-featured port to another architecture requires
writing some assembly code for the exception handling and garbage collection.
Alternatively, fallback implementation based on setjmp/longjmp can be used.

To build (see section below for required dependencies):

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/unix
    $ make

Then to give it a try:

    $ ./micropython
    >>> list(5 * x + y for x in range(10) for y in [4, 2, 1])

Use `CTRL-D` (i.e. EOF) to exit the shell.
Learn about command-line options (in particular, how to increase heap size
which may be needed for larger applications):

    $ ./micropython --help

Run complete testsuite:

    $ make test

Unix version comes with a builtin package manager called upip, e.g.:

    $ ./micropython -m upip install micropython-pystone
    $ ./micropython -m pystone

Browse available modules on
[PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi?%3Aaction=search&term=micropython).
Standard library modules come from
[micropython-lib](https://github.com/pfalcon/micropython-lib) project.

External dependencies
---------------------

Building MicroPython ports may require some dependencies installed.

For Unix port, `libffi` library and `pkg-config` tool are required. On
Debian/Ubuntu/Mint derivative Linux distros, install `build-essential`
(includes toolchain and make), `libffi-dev`, and `pkg-config` packages.

Other dependencies can be built together with MicroPython. This may
be required to enable extra features or capabilities, and in recent
versions of MicroPython, these may be enabled by default. To build
these additional dependencies, first fetch git submodules for them:

    $ git submodule update --init

Use the same command to get the latest versions of dependencies, as
they are updated from time to time. After that, in the port directory
(e.g. `ports/unix/`), execute:

    $ make deplibs

This will build all available dependencies (regardless whether they
are used or not). If you intend to build MicroPython with additional
options (like cross-compiling), the same set of options should be passed
to `make deplibs`. To actually enable/disable use of dependencies, edit
`ports/unix/mpconfigport.mk` file, which has inline descriptions of the options.
For example, to build SSL module (required for `upip` tool described above,
and so enabled by dfeault), `MICROPY_PY_USSL` should be set to 1.

For some ports, building required dependences is transparent, and happens
automatically. They still need to be fetched with the git submodule command
above.

The STM32 version
-----------------

The "stm32" port requires an ARM compiler, arm-none-eabi-gcc, and associated
bin-utils.  For those using Arch Linux, you need arm-none-eabi-binutils,
arm-none-eabi-gcc and arm-none-eabi-newlib packages.  Otherwise, try here:
https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded

To build:

    $ git submodule update --init
    $ cd ports/stm32
    $ make

You then need to get your board into DFU mode.  On the pyboard, connect the
3V3 pin to the P1/DFU pin with a wire (on PYBv1.0 they are next to each other
on the bottom left of the board, second row from the bottom).

Then to flash the code via USB DFU to your device:

    $ make deploy

This will use the included `tools/pydfu.py` script.  If flashing the firmware
does not work it may be because you don't have the correct permissions, and
need to use `sudo make deploy`.
See the README.md file in the ports/stm32/ directory for further details.

Contributing
------------

MicroPython is an open-source project and welcomes contributions. To be
productive, please be sure to follow the
[Contributors' Guidelines](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/wiki/ContributorGuidelines)
and the [Code Conventions](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/blob/master/CODECONVENTIONS.md).
Note that MicroPython is licenced under the MIT license, and all contributions
should follow this license.

Fork FAQ
========

Q: Why fork?

A: I was a co-maintainer of MicroPython from 2013-12-29 till 2017-12-27,
and authored 2779 commits during that time, that's more than 30% of commits
during that timeframe
([prooflink](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/graphs/contributors?from=2013-12-29&to=2017-12-27)).
Many MicroPython's modules and subsystems were designed and implemented by
me. After I lost commit access to the main repository, I continue my work
here.

Q: Why wasn't it renamed?

A: My fork is just one of 1900+ forks of MicroPython (prooflink:
[fork stats](https://github.com/micropython/micropython)). I mostly
do everything like they do, and it's just a convenience to continue
calling it MicroPython, so everyone understands what the talk is about,
especially given that during 4 years, I spent a lot of effort to promote
MicroPython and designed/implemented many things in it, without which
MicroPython wouldn't be what it is today. But if you want to look at
the renamed project, you can: https://github.com/pfalcon/pycopy .
Update: It's effectively renamed now. Up to people which name to use.

Q: Relation to the upstream?

A: I rebase on the upstream regularly (and branch `master` in this
repository is still upstream). I revert commits I consider going in
wrong direction or not implemented thoroughly enough. Some things
from this repo got pulled into upstream, some I submit as pull requests
myself (with pull request processing in the upstream being slow and
number of my patches since even co-mainainership time aren't processed
for years, I don't really have incentive to submit too much/too often).

Q: Focus of the fork?

A:
* Code optimizations.
* Continue to develop inplace, buffer and stream operations allowing
  to write highly memory effiicient applications.
* Garbage collection experiments.
* Reflection features (ultimately allowing to develop optimizing compilers,
  etc. in Python).
* More CPython features implemented (configurable).
* "Development/Testing" version with improved program analysis features.
* etc.
